


## "Defending the p-value"
Yudi Pawitan [source](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.02099)

Taking some notes and digesting this..

#### on sample size
> "Above all, thinking about design issues prior to starting the study forces a good discipline on the experimenters. Theoretically the concepts of testing, test statistic, significance level, power, and sample size are closely connected. Banning the P-value must also mean banning the test statistic, since there is one-to-one map between them. Without the test statistic it does not make sense to talk about power and sample size. Overall, much of the good statistical ideas from the theory of design of experiments would have to be abandoned."

How does one choose the sample size. This has been an early important question for me.

#### Is the p-value a probability measure?
> "...people often misinterpret it as the probability of the null hypothesis... P-value is not the probability of observed data given the null hypothesis... P-value is more complex: the probability of the observed data _or something more extreme than the observed data_ assuming the null hypothesis is true. "
> "the p-value is indeed not a probability of the null hypothesis, but it is a valid measure of 'confidence'. This non-Bayesian concept of confidence is the same 'confidence' that we use in 'confidence interval' so it is a fully mainstream concept. "

When I look back at my trusty "Data Science from Scratch" reference book, the p-value section notes (p.84) ...
> "...we compute the probability--assuming Ho is true--that we would see a value at least as extreme as the one we actually observed."

* Ok there is definitely some nuance here and I think it is shared between the authors. What if the variable we are considering is normally distributed (which is safe to assume because we are typically looking at the sampling distribution), then I think I follow more the "Data Science from Scratch" book that it is fair to say that any area under the cumulative distribution is a probability.
* But Yudi seems to agree that it is a probability as long as you are precise, but he seems to prefer talking about it as a "measure of confidence".
